In the last lecture we've learned about the concept of view composers and thanks to that we made some
data available under a particular variable names inside view templates to specific views.
In our case we made that available to the Post's index view.
We set that inside the app service provider that The View posts index should use the activity composer
which in turn is fetching their most active users most commented blog posts and most active users last
month and under those names those variable names.
It is now available inside every inside this post's index view.
Now I have also said that we would like to make this available on the right side when you see one blog
post.
So let's see how we can approach that using everything that we have learned so far.
So we are not introducing anything new.
We will use everything that we should already know
now.
Previously we created our forum for editing and adding a blog post and we've used that include directive
which allowed us to display some content inside particular views and just display everything that was
inside our particular helper template.
Let's call it a HAMP helper template underscore a forum and it also inherited all the variables that
this power interview had.
Now we can use the same technique for our index blade that actually this view is called Post index and
now we have also this show blade BHP where we display our one blog post.
So first let us go ahead and create a new helper template inside the Post's namespace.
We can call it activity blade BHP or underscore activity blade BHP.
That's a good convention to call your help our templates that you only include somewhere starting with
an underscore.
Okay press enter and now what we will do is let's open this index template for posts.
And here we decided previously that we'll use some columns of the bootstrap.
And here we inserted our container to put this data into separate rows so let's just cut all this content.
From that index template and moved that to the activity template.
Now we might reformat that to be more clear what is inside this template.
OK.
So we are assuming that in every template that will include this activity partial template it will have
access to those variables.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we can call include posts activity.
Now we do not have to pass anything else as you've seen inside the create dot.
We only have to add the include directive the name of the partial template and every variable that was
available to this post's index view will be available also inside that posts underscore activity.
Now this made this template a lot shorter but what we are missing is inside the show blade BHP.
We do not have the columns system that we have other to the index template so let's add it here to.
Now we will need to reformat this a little bit
OK.
Let's close the deal with the first column
and here will add another column that let's say would be of the with for so deep.
Class call for and close this deal.
Now what we will do inside this show template is exactly what we did inside index templates so we are
just including a partial template
now save the changes.
That's not everything that we will have to do.
But now let's see what do we get.
So first let's go to the blog post list to see if that still works.
Also let's find our tag click it to see if we can still see this panel on the right so we can.
Now let's go to the blog post.
Now wait until it loads and.
Well what we see is undefined variable.
Most commented.
So actually I expected this and to solve it you have to define another view that will be to which this
variables from this activity composer will be available.
So as I've said the composer method specifies two world views those data would be available.
So instead of just passing a string you can pass an array
and add the missing view which is posts show and that's it.
Now you just have to save the changes.
Refresh this page and after it loads will see the same thing.
What we had inside the least of blog posts.
So on the right we have this panel that is fetching the data from the same place from the activity composer.
And it's also cached.
So basically we are not doing any more queries to fetch these data now using composers is a great idea
and also specifying inside one of your service providers of course don't worry about service providers
right now.
I haven't really explained them yet.
We'll do that later.
Now inside the app service provider we've listed the only views that we want this data to be available
in because well this makes sense sometimes you might want all the data to be shown on all the templates
but in our example we do not want that on a home page or contact page.
And specifically we do not want that on the register or logging page now but if you would like to make
this available for all their views what you will do instead is you will call this method.
This composer method with one string argument and an asterisk.
So this will make data from activity composer available in every single larval view that you will create.
So let's comment that out because we want need that.
But anyway this is the way you would make this available only to specific views instead of just passing
a string you will pass an array of the few names.